So we only have two more steps to go.
So in step six here,
we're going to develop the login status component
for the login, log out buttons.
Just move back into my terminal window here.
And I do this ng generate component,
component/loginStatus.
All right. We can kind of zoom out a bit
and take a look at all these new files
they just created for us.
So here's our login status with the supporting files.
All right. So with this, I'd like to get started
with a login status component dot Ts file or TypeScript.
And I'll move in and I'll define two fields.
I'll have a field for isAuthenticated, that's a boolean.
And also field here for the user full name as a string.
In my construct, I'm going to inject this oktaAuthService.
Make sure our imports are fine up top.
Okay, that's fine.
Good.
And now move down here to this ngOnInit method.
Let me kind of zoom in here for a bit.
And so basically what I want to do here
is subscribe to the authentication state
for state changes on this oktaAuthService.
So I'll have a dot subscribe.
And so we'll get a result,
and I simply assign this results who isAuthenticated.
And then also what I'll do is I'll make a call
to this method here, get user details
because I want to get the user's name
or the user's full name.
So I'll go ahead and create this method.
So I kind of move down here to the bottom.
So here's our getUserDetails.
So here I only want to get the user's details
if they're actually authenticated, if that's true.
We will fetch the logged in user details,
the user's claims,
the user full name is exposed as a property name.
So here we'll have this .oktaAuthService.getuser,
then once we get the result, we'll make the assignment.
And so the result here, this .userFullName equals
result dot name.
And for this result here
it could be in parentheses or not.
It's totally up to you as far as syntax or recital,
either way it will work.
I'll just go ahead and put it in parentheses.
Okay. And so we have one more item that we need to add here,
a log out method.
So let me just kind of move around here on my screen
and get things lined up properly. Okay.
So during the log out, we want to terminate the session
with okta and also remove the current tokens.
So we'll make use of this oktaAuthService.signOut
and it'll handle all of that work for us behind the scenes.